# plagiarism-detection
Investigates whether plagiarism detection algorithms can be applied to accurately match similar or same semantic context across different versions of a textual document. We use the algorithm proposed by Thomas Hikaru Clark in [this](https://towardsdatascience.com/simple-plagiarism-detection-in-python-2314ac3aee88) [Towards Data Science](https://towardsdatascience.com/) article. While we make some modifications in our application of it, all attribution for the original code goes to him.

### File descriptions for this repo:
```bash
├── analysis.ipynb ** Jupyter notebook to analyse the data generated by plagiarism-detection.py **
├── collaite-plagiarism-diagram.pdf ** overview diagram with the goal of this analysis and how it was done **
├── plagiarism-detection.ipynb ** Jupyter notebook with the code to run the plagiarism detection algorithm **
├── plagiarism-detection.py ** Main script to train and run the plagiarism detection model **
└── requirements.txt ** lists required libraries for plagiarism-detection.py **
```

### Changes made to the original algorithm:

``plagiarism-detection.py`` has been modified to automate the application of multiple different parameter values for the ngram size and the model type (MLE or Witten-Bell). 

### Required input data:

In the CollAIte project, we are applying the algorithm to multiple versions of the "Projectielantaarn Aladin" manuscript by [Raymond Brulez](https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raymond_Brulez). The required input data is indicated in ``collaite-plagiarism-diagram.pdf``. ``plagiarism-detection.py`` requires two plain text files which represent two witnesses that are directly related chronologically speaking (i.e., one directly follows the other in the version history). The first witness in the sequence is the **training data** and the second witness is the **testing data**. This can be configured on Lines 21-23 in ``plagiarism-detection.py``. If we have four plain text witnesses w1-w4, then we have three pairs of files that we could input to ``plagiarism-detection.py`` i.e., w1-w2; w2-w3; and w3-w4 (see Lines 21-23). ``plagiarism-detection.py`` also requires the name of a CSV output file for storing the results of running the analysis. This can also be configured in Lines 21-23 of ``plagiarism-detection.py``. Finally, ``plagiarism-detection.py`` expects a folder called ``interactive`` in the same directory before running the script. You can of course remove this need or reconfigure the folder name on Line 138.

### Running the script:

**Requirements:**
1. Python 3.7+
2. Git

**Steps:**
1. Clone this repo (``git clone git@github.com:collaite/plagiarism-detection.git``)
2. Change into the ``plagiarism-detection/`` directory
3. Run ``pip install -r requirements.txt`` in the terminal or console (optionally create and activate a virtual environment using something like [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) before running this command)
4. Ensuring that you have the required input data as indicated above and you have configured ``plagiarism-detection.py`` accordingly, Run ``python plagiarism-detection.py`` or ``python3 plagiarism-detection.py`` depending on your installation settings for Python 3.

